Fencing Guidelines 
Standard fences have been developed and approved by the ARC for use in Murrayhill.  (See Appendix for Fence 
Construction Detail drawings.)  Other designs may be submitted for approval.  However, to encourage and 
establish development and neighborhood continuity, the ARC may restrict the type, height and/or finish of fences 
in certain locations. 
1. Applications:  Applications to the ARC for fencing approval (standard or non-standard) must include the 
height, location, color and design of the proposed fence, the designated Design Review fee, a sample of the 
proposed building materials, a paint or stain chip, if appropriate, and any such other information as the ARC 
may request.  Location must be designated on a “to scale” copy of a site plan for the lot. 
2. Construction:   Fencing must not exceed 6’ in height and is restricted to rear and side yards.  Fence lines 
should parallel contours wherever possible, sloping to follow grade and blend with the terrain.  Tops of 
fences running perpendicular to the grade should be sloped to follow grade and should not change more than 
12” between panels; bottom of fences must slope to follow grade, with a maximum 4” clearance from grade.  
Design of gate(s) must match fence. 
3. Private Open Space Restrictions (Resource Areas): In order to retain as much of the natural character as 
possible, fencing adjacent to private open space areas must be type “F” only, installed per the current 
standard Murrayhill detail, subject to the normal approval process.  Fencing is prohibited at the boundary of 
lots abutting private open space and fencing is not allowed within the designated private open space 
easements.  Fence type “F” must be built at least 3’ from the private open space boundary and is limited to a 
height of 5’.  Fences connecting to those fences along the private open space (such as side or rear yards 
fences) must be type “F” within 19’ of the private open space boundary.  Fences more than 19’ from the 
private open space boundary must meet all other design guideline and ARC criteria.  Specific additional 
requirements apply to Lots 434 - 440.  See the plat restriction. 
4. Retaining Wall Fences: Fencing adjacent to retaining walls is to be placed on top of the wall and set back at 
least 3’ from the edge of the wall.  If the fence is placed less than 3’ from the top edge of the wall, the total 
height of retaining wall and fence must not exceed 6’ measured from the downhill side. 
5. Corner Offset: Fencing must be offset from corners of the house by at least 2’ unless designated as an 
extension of the house wall. 
6. Finishing: Fencing must be stained with “Olympic Stonehedge Solid Stain”. In order to maintain satisfactory 
condition, all fence owners are encouraged to apply the approved stain as soon as practicable.  The Applicant 
may apply to the ARC for approval of other stains or paints.  Non-finished or weathered wood fences are not 
allowed.