General Conditions 
 
The authority to issue Design Guidelines is granted by 
the Murrayhill Owners Association through the 
Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (CC&R's). 
The Murrayhill Architectural Review Committee (ARC) 
generally approves applications outright or approves 
them with conditions.  Most decisions are reached by a 
consensus of those members of the committee that are 
present.  If a consensus cannot be reached, a vote may 
be taken.  Approval of any application requires the 
assent of three voting members.  If three voting 
members do not approve an application, it will be sent 
back for additional detail, information, clarification, or 
redesign.  
Required Reviews: Review and approval before 
construction or installation is required before any 
improvement to a homesite, including: 
Building a new home. 
Adding to or in any way changing the exterior 
appearance of a home or other structure (including 
tool sheds, playhouses, patio covers, additions, decks, 
or paving). 
Applying different paint or changing colors that are 
different than what’s been specifically approved for the 
home. 
Installing or modifying landscaping (except for installing 
annuals or other seasonal plant materials).  Please refer 
to landscape section for landscaping that does not 
require Architectural Review Committee approval. 
Installing recreational equipment (pools, courts, 
basketball hoops). 
All construction must occur strictly in accordance with 
the approval and conditions of approval, if any, from 
the ARC.  Periodic construction reviews will occur to 
ensure that construction is proceeding in accordance 
with the approved plans. 
Field Changes: Although it is the intent of the ARC that 
all improvements must be built exactly in  
 
Accordance with the approved documents, the 
Committee recognizes that occasionally a revision is 
necessary "in the field" in response to conditions that 
may have been unforeseen at the time of approval.  
However, any alteration to or deviation from approved 
plans must be sent to the ARC Chairperson for approval 
as soon as the need for the revision is noticed.  Any 
construction which deviates from the approved plans is 
at the risk of the applicant. 
Limitations:  While the ARC addresses the outside 
appearance of each home and its relationship to the 
environment, the Committee does not review and is 
not responsible in any way for structural, technical, 
construction or building code issues.  However, the ARC 
may request, without assuming any liability, that an 
applicant review and resubmit plans and specifications 
to resolve any apparent structural issues, if resolution 
of the issue could affect the outside appearance of the 
home.  Any changes or alterations must be approved 
by the ARC before beginning any work related to those 
alterations. 
The ARC shall not be liable for damages in any way to 
anyone including those who submit plans, or build, 
occupy, or own homes by reason of mistake in 
judgment, or non-feasibility, failure to approve or 
disapprove plans or specifications, or for any injury or 
damage of any kind caused by any improvements 
constructed from such plans and specifications.  The 
ARC shall not have control of, or charge of, and shall 
not be responsible for construction means, methods, 
techniques, sequences or procedures, or for safety 
precautions, for the acts or omissions of any contractor, subcontractors, or any other persons performing any of the work, or for the failure of any of them to 
carry out the work in accordance with the ARC 
approvals or any rule of any governing body. 
Other Rule making Entities: In addition to ARC 
approvals, all construction must conform to the 
requirements of all applicable governing bodies and 
regulations such as City of Beaverton Standards and 
Oregon Building Codes.