Landscaping Applications 
Commercial, multi-family and single family homeowners are responsible for landscaping their property as part of 
construction.  Builders may apply for temporary or final landscaping.  If a builder elects to apply for final 
landscaping, the same Guideline requirements apply as those for single family home landscape applicants.  All 
landscape applicants should submit the entire plan at once, regardless of any installation phasing.  Drawings 
submitted to the ARC should be drawn exactly as the improvement is to be built or installed.  Inconsistency and 
inaccuracy will be cause for rejection of an application by the ARC. 
It is the responsibility of the applicant, when installing landscaping, to follow the plan as approved by the ARC. 
If a submitted landscape plan has been rejected by the ARC, or if significant changes have been made to a 
previously approved landscape plan, an updated, corrected application must be submitted to the ARC for approval.  
No landscape installation is to commence before ARC approval. 
Landscape and Review:   Builder’s Temporary Landscaping Application or Builder’s Partial Final Landscaping 
Application; Multi-Family Home Landscaping Application; Commercial Landscaping Application and Single Family 
Home Landscaping Applications are to be processed as follows: 
1. Landscaping Review: Landscaping applications must be made in duplicate using the appropriate “Murrayhill 
Architectural Review Committee Application” form (completed in full).  Inaccurate, partial or incomplete 
applications will not be reviewed by the ARC.   
1.1. Required elements:   Applicant must submit two copies of the landscape plan and include on these 
drawings the following: 
1.1.1. Plant-list - List botanical and common names of all plant selections, indicating the plant size 
at time of installation. (A common name can represent many varieties of a plant.  The 
botanical name is needed to specifically identify a plant selection.) 
1.1.2. Scale - No smaller than 1/8” equals 1’-0”. 
1.1.3. Plant location drawn at mature size. 
1.1.4. Grading and elevations. 
1.1.5. All elements of landscaping drawn to scale. 
1.2. Landscaping Final Approval and Expiration: The applicant will be notified in writing of the action of 
the ARC within 30 days of submission of all information requested.  If final approval has been 
granted, approval will automatically be deemed revoked 180 days after issuance, unless construction 
of the improvement or installation of the landscape has commenced or the applicant has applied for 
and received an extension of time from the ARC. 
1.3. Re-hearing: If the ARC rejects an application, additional review by the ARC will not be made unless 
substantial changes in the application have been made.  The applicant can meet directly with the ARC 
during any stage of the ARC review process in order to clarify or resolve disagreement.  If resolution 
cannot be reached during the final review process, the applicant has the right to request review by 
the MOA Board of Directors.  It is up to the discretion of the MOA Board of Directors to decide if 
review will be granted an applicant.  If the Board does grant review, the ARC Chairperson will be in 
attendance to clarify ARC action. 
1.4. Construction Observation: Submittal of an application gives authority to the ARC to make on-site 
observation of the lot and any landscaping in progress to determine reasonable compliance with the 
approved submittal.  
 

1.5. Landscape Installation Field Changes: Although it is the intent of the ARC that all landscape 
installation be exactly per approved plans, the ARC realizes that occasionally a revision must be made 
“in the field” in response to certain existing conditions that may have been unforeseen at the time of 
approval.  Any alteration to or deviation from approved plans must be submitted to the ARC for 
approval before commencement of construction or installation of the element to be altered.  Any 
landscaper/owner/applicant who proceed with the field changes before ARC approval acknowledges 
and assumes the risk that the ARC can require changes to be altered or removed.  The ARC is under 
no obligation to approve unauthorized field changes. 
 
2.  Landscape Alteration:    The following information delineates which alterations and modifications require no 
application and which do require application:  
2.1. Landscape Alterations That Require No Application: Landscape that has been installed as originally 
approved by the ARC can undergo minor, insignificant changes without application to the ARC.  Such 
allowable changes include: 
2.1.1. The addition of plants or shrubs to fill out the original approved landscape design. 
2.1.2. The replacement of plant material with plants of the same or compatible species and variety.  
Plant species and size references: Landscape Standards section 11 and 11.1. 
2.1.3. Required landscape mitigation plantings, such as but not limited to blank wall mitigation, 
required tree replacement or utility screening, must remain or be replaced.  Areas left 
without shrubs or lawn must be replanted within 6 months with new plantings of 
appropriate size, density and scale. If the replacement lawn or plantings are other than 
depicted on the approved landscape plan an application is required. 
2.1.4. Disclosure:   It is the responsibility of the property owner to ensure that non-application 
landscape alterations follow the Guideline requirements.  Non-conformance may result in 
the ARC requiring modification or removal of the alteration by the owner and can be subject 
to the compliance process. 
2.2. Landscape Alterations That Do Require Application:   Landscape changes that do require prior 
application to the ARC include: 
2.2.1. Landscape redesign. 
2.2.2. The addition or removal of trees.  
2.2.3. The addition of “hardscape items”.  Hardscape items refer to anything that does not grow, 
such as but not limited to fences, walkways, patios, decks, retaining walls, etc.  Provide 
construction details on these items when submitting for review.   
 
You should contact the ARC if there is any doubt as to whether or not application for an 
alteration is necessary.  A landscape alteration requires the same kind of information in the 
application as for the original landscape application. 
3. Multi-Family Home Landscaping: Multi-family home landscaping must be completed as part of construction 
and is subject to ARC review and approval. 
4. Commercial Landscaping: Commercial landscaping is subject to ARC review and approval. 
 

General Landscaping Guidelines 
The goal of the landscape guidelines is to ensure high-quality, well-planned and attractive landscaping in Murrayhill.  The 
natural landscape of rolling topography, Douglas-fir and mountain views provide character to the community.  Landscape 
design in Murrayhill should enhance this scenic quality and incorporate plantings that compliment the existing features 
of the area.  Planting in informal masses is preferred.  Insofar as possible within the Guidelines, landscape may be 
designed to accommodate individual creativity, desires and needs of the applicant.  All landscaping should be designed in 
conjunction with the architectural design of the residence, the lot and adjacent properties (such as boundary 
compatibility, views, easements, setbacks, special areas, etc.).  Design and plant selections should attain a mature look 
within three to five years.  Landscape should enhance solar efficiency. 
1. The goal of each homeowner when developing their landscaping is to provide the following: 
 A fully landscaped yard (front, sides, and rear) with a mature appearance within 3-5 years. 
 A mix of evergreen and deciduous trees and shrubs. 
 Areas reserved for seasonal color (annuals, perennials) that also do not appear barren during “off-seasons”. 
 Foundation plantings to screen concrete foundation exposure. 
 Blank wall mitigation.  Many times, during construction review, the Architectural Review Committee will note 
tall and/or blank walls that cannot be broken up with the addition of windows.  In such cases, the committee 
will require significant (tall) trees to be planted at the time of final landscaping to mitigate the tall and/or blank 
walls.  (See General Construction Guidelines, Openings and Projections.) 
2. Landscape Elements: The information provided is to aid the applicant in submitting an approvable landscape 
application. When planning your landscape, homeowners should be acquainted with all possible softscape elements 
(those items that grow) and hardscape elements (those items that do not grow).  Landscape construction is to be 
installed using the same high-quality materials and care, as that required for home construction.  Include in the 
application all those features that are relevant to a complete landscape design: 
 
Softscape Hardscape 
Trees/Plant Material Retaining Walls 
Planting Beds/Mulch Areas Patios/Decks 
Ground Cover Areas Sidewalks/Walkways 
Lawn Areas Sport Courts 
Berms Landscape Lighting 
Ponds/Water Features Fencing/Screening 
Indicate on drawings: Standing Features (Arbors, Arches, Pergolas, etc.) 
Final grade at 2’ intervals Recreational Areas (Play Structures, Play Equipment) 
Contours off site to show compatibility Planter Boxes/Window Boxes 
with adjacent property Raised Garden Beds 
Drainage Accents (Large Wall Mountings. Trellises, etc.) 
 Service Areas/Service Structures 
 
3. The front, side and rear landscaping, including the area between the curb and sidewalk (parking strip) is to be 
completed within 180 days of occupancy.  In the case of continuing inclement weather, an owner may apply to the 
ARC for a time extension. 

 
4. Be aware that a new home purchased with temporary builder landscaping will require additional landscaping within 
the final landscaping time limits.  
5. Bark dust or other mulch products are not an acceptable ground cover. 
6. Landscape maintenance is an important part of the landscaping process.  All landscaping must be kept in a neat and 
orderly appearance, free of weeds or other undesirable plant material at all times.  Dead or dying trees, shrubs and 
other plant material must be removed and replaced as soon as possible.  Failure to maintain landscaping in a neat 
and orderly appearance is a violation of the CC&R’s and is subject to action from the Owners Association 
Compliance Committee. 

Landscaping Standards 
1. Accents:   Decorative accents, such as large stones, river rock, etc., may be used sparingly for landscape highlight.  
Accent materials are not to be used as permanent ground cover in large areas. 
2. Adjacent Properties: The scenic views of adjacent properties must not be blocked.  Consideration to adjacent 
properties must be given both in plant selection and placement.  Avoid invasive plants at property lines and consider 
height and space limitations in regard to mature plant size.  Plant selections should be compatible with adjacent 
material. 
3. Design Elements: When laying out the landscape design, think about what achieves good proportion relevant to the 
home, plus pleasing line, spacing, color and texture.  Consider area function and access when planning.  The core of 
landscape design can be met with an interesting mix of deciduous and evergreen plants to provide year-round 
greenery and color.  Massing, varying heights and creative accents lend individuality to your landscape.  Avoid the 
individual scattering of plants.  When designing the landscape layout, give consideration to exterior (shade, 
screening, etc.) and interior (light blockage, views, solar efficiency, etc.) effects of plan design. 
4. Foundation Coverage: Exposed foundation must be screened.  A predominate mix of evergreen shrubs is best to 
provide year-round foliage, soften corners and dress up the base of the house.  Choose species that will not grow 
too large for the area or damage the foundation. 
5. Grading: Any re-grading proposed at time of landscaping must be clearly and accurately indicated on your landscape 
plan.  (Please refer to Item 9, Drainage, page 12, for more information about re-grading). 
6. Ground Cover: Large, bare, unplanted areas are not permitted in the landscape design.  Mulches are not to be used 
as permanent ground cover, but natural, native bark mulch products are recommended in planting bed areas to 
hold moisture and add organic matter to the soil.  Ground cover should be selected and placed to provide the 
appropriate coverage and density for the specie at maturity; that is, they should provide complete coverage of the 
area intended within three to five years.  Large areas of gravel, colored rock, painted concrete and Astroturf are not 
acceptable as permanent ground covers. 
7. Hedges:   All hedge installation is subject to ARC approval on a case-by-case basis, which will include height, width, 
location, encroachment, setbacks, views and plant selection concerns.  Hedges are not to be used as fencing. 
Extensive property line hedging is not allowed.  Side yard hedges are discouraged.  Hedges may be used in private, 
rear areas of the yard to screen or diffuse recreational areas, garden areas, storage areas, service areas, etc., from 
public or street view.  Hedges are to be maintained in a manner appropriate to the specie.  Selecting plant varieties 
that can be allowed to grow to a natural, graceful shape, without the need for severe pruning is preferred.   
8. Landscape Maintenance: All landscaping in Murrayhill is to be maintained in a neat and healthy appearance at all 
times. 
9. Lawn Areas: Lawns may be seeded or sodded.  Turf is permitted next to and abutting structures.  Turf must not be 
used in private open space and is discouraged adjacent to private open space and public open space. (See Item 12, 
Private Space, Private Open Space, and Public Open Space, page 24). 
10. Parking Strip: The homeowner is responsible for installing and maintaining the lawn area between the curb and the 
sidewalk and/or lot.  Turf is required in the parking strip, but a stepping stone of rock, brick, etc., may be installed in 
the turf to allow access from curb to sidewalk.  (Refer to Item 15, Street Trees, and page 25, concerning tree 
requirements).  
11. Plant Species: Certain plants and trees are indigenous to the Murrayhill area and have been found to grow well in 
this location.  Recommended plant lists and assistance in choosing plants are available from the ARC upon request.  
Publications such as the Sunset Western Garden Book are a valuable resource when choosing plants material 
 
11.1. Plant material includes trees, shrubs, ground covers, vines, perennials, annuals and bulbs.  A mixture of 
species will add interest to your landscaping.  When making plant selection, be sure to research growth 
patterns, mature size and environmental needs of the specie selected (sun, shade, soil, drainage, etc.), 
then locate plants accordingly.  Avoid placement that could result in damage to adjacent foundation, 

sidewalks and driveways.  Plant size chosen at installation should reflect growth rate of the plant material 
and should be placed on the plan in a manner to encourage a finished look within three to five years.  The 
use of native plant material is encouraged in areas adjacent to private open space and public open space.  
If you are unsure which plants do well in this area, Murrayhill has developed a suggested (but not limited 
to) plant list that may aid in the selection of plant material. 
 
12. Private Space, Private Open Space and Public Open Space: Murrayhill is divided into private areas, private open 
space (resource areas) and public open space (common areas).  All landscape applicants are to abide by the 
Murrayhill Guidelines and the City of Beaverton easements and restrictions pertaining to both Private Open Space 
and Public Open Space areas.  Check to see if your property is adjacent to public open space or part of private open 
space where specified Guidelines, as well as City of Beaverton restrictions apply.  Also, be sure to read your title 
insurance document, which specifies easements and restrictions pertaining to your specific lot. 
 
In order to avoid damage to terrain in private open spaces and public open spaces, homeowners should provide 
designers, contractors and workers with easement and restriction information before commencement of landscape 
design and installation. 
12.1. Private Space: Boundaries of owner’s lot, exclusive of Private Open Space. 
12.2. Private Open Space (Resource Areas): Area that falls under private ownership, but is subject to 
development restrictions by the ARC and the City of Beaverton.  These easements have been created to 
preserve wildlife habitat, drainage-ways, and to maintain the natural landscape.  
 
Any proposed alteration to these areas must be approved by both the City of Beaverton and the 
Architectural Review Committee.  Plans received by the Architectural Review Committee without prior 
City of Beaverton approval will not be reviewed.  Additional information regarding these areas is 
available from the City of Beaverton Planning Department as well as from the Murrayhill Owners 
Association office. 
 
The restrictions on these easements are as follows: 
12.2.1. Removal of Plant Material: No tree, shrub or any other plant material may be removed without 
prior approval of the ARC and the City of Beaverton. 
12.2.2. New Plant Material: New plant material should be indigenous to the area and should be chosen 
for its wildlife habitat value.  No lawns are allowed within the designated private open space 
easements. 
12.2.3. Re-grading Prohibited: No roadways or re-grading will be permitted within the private open space 
easements. 
12.2.4. Structures Prohibited: No structure of any sort, including fencing, will be permitted within the 
private open space easement, nor are they allowed along easement lines, unless such structure is 
deemed required to protect the surrounding property, property owner, or community at large 
from a verified natural hazard or imminent danger.   
12.2.5. Landscape Transition: Owners adjacent to private open space areas should provide a transition 
from landscaped areas to open spaces.   Species at these junctures should be indigenous to the 
area.  Layout of plant material should be in loose, informal masses. 
12.3. Public Open Space: Area owned by the MOA for public use (such as sidewalks, Common Areas, etc.). 
12.3.1. Adjacent Lawn: Turf is discouraged in areas adjacent to public open space. 

 
12.3.2. Adjacent Plant Material: The use of native or compatible plant material is encouraged in areas 
adjacent to public open space. 
12.3.3. Informal Plant Arrangement: Informal massing of plant material adjacent to public open space is 
encouraged. 
 
13. Retaining Walls 
13.1. Wall Height: Retaining walls for landscape purposes should not exceed four (4) feet in height.  Walls in 
excess of four feet in height shall be designed and the drawings stamped by a certified engineer.  Particular 
notice shall be given as to footings, type of material and drainage allowance.  The approval of the drawings 
by the ARC will necessitate construction only as approved.  Two lower walls may complement a welldesigned landscape arrangement much better than one taller wall.  The potential for more usable 
landscaping area using a set of shorter walls should be explored and is encouraged. 
 
13.2. Wall Material: Retaining walls shall be constructed of material that complements and is compatible with 
adjacent material and textures of those used in the home.  Facing and capping of retaining walls is 
encouraged to present a pleasing vista.  Blank retaining walls are discouraged.  If it is not possible to 
construct a wall without large blank areas the area(s) must be mitigated by adequate plantings, or other 
means, as approved by the ARC. 
14. Screening:   Locations in the yard such as storage areas, service areas, noisy or play equipment areas, etc., are to be 
screened or diffused from street view and, if possible, from adjacent property view. 
15. Street Trees: Street trees are planted by the developer in the strip between the curb and the sidewalk or lot in 
accordance with the requirements of the City as part of the Planned Development process.  Owners are responsible 
for maintenance of street trees adjacent to their property. 
16. Trees:   The Murrayhill community places a high value on trees.  Groves of trees should be preserved whenever 
practical.  Siting, building, landscaping and maintenance of homes and yards must give high priority to retaining as 
many trees as possible. 
 
Lots and neighborhoods that were wooded after installation of utilities and roads should retain a wooded character 
after home construction.  Replanting is required to reinforce and replace trees removed during construction and 
subsequent occupancy so that the wooded character will recover within a 10-year period.  Owners must plan, plant 
and maintain yards in order to preserve and protect the health of existing trees.  
 
Consideration of the eventual height of trees shall be exercised for protection of existing views and solar access.  
17. Tree Preservation and Removal: The form and placement of the building, driveway, decks, patios and other manmade features must be designed to preserve trees.  Removal of any tree over 6” in caliper or diameter at 4’6” in 
height is subject to approval by the ARC.  The City of Beaverton has additional requirements, different criteria and a 
separate review process for approval of removing trees. To remove trees, approval must be granted by both the City 
of Beaverton and the ARC.  The City of Beaverton does not necessarily require permission for all tree removal. Street 
trees and protected trees only will require City permission for removal. 
17.1. Tree Removal Approval:   Generally, the ARC will approve removal of trees only in the following instances: 
17.1.1. Distance from Structures: Tree is within 15’ of the foundation, 7’ of walks and drives or 3’ of a 
deck, provided a reasonable attempt has been made to site the home to preserve existing trees, 
particularly stands or groves of significant trees. 
17.1.2. Condition Report: An arborist or the MOA Landscape Consultant has confirmed, in writing, that a 
tree is damaged or diseased or is dead. 
 

17.1.3. Single trees: A single tree may present a hazard to the adjacent property and must be judged 
separately from the above criteria.  Special attention must be given to canopy size, potential for 
windthrow, former status within the stand and possible future deleterious effects from re-grading 
adjacent to this tree. 
17.2. Protection of Trees to be Preserved: Trees identified by the ARC to be saved as a condition of approval 
require the following protection: 
17.2.1. Trees designated to be preserved shall be fenced with five foot high fencing a minimum of 15’ 
from the trunk of the tree. (If the tree is less than 6” in diameter at 4’6” height the fencing may 
be accomplished at the drip line of the canopy.)  This fencing shall be installed before any grading 
or construction activities on the lot.  
17.2.2. The area inside the fencing shall not be used for storage of construction materials. The fencing 
shall not be breached at any time during construction.  If the fence is breached or penetrated, the 
ARC shall be notified immediately.  All work in this area shall cease until an ARC representative 
has inspected the area and authorized fence repairs and any required mitigation before 
resumption of work in the affected area. 
17.2.3. No soil may be removed from inside the fenced area and no spoils may be placed in the fenced 
area without specific authorization from the ARC administrator or his designate. Construction 
litter will not be allowed to accumulate inside the fenced area. 
17.3. Care of trees other than those required to be saved by the ARC is the responsibility of the applicant during 
any construction or landscape activity. 
17.4. Tree Replacement: Removed trees are to be replaced in accordance with the following standards.  The 
Architectural Review Committee reserves the right to alter or grant waivers to these replacement 
standards on a case-by-case basis. 
 
Wooded Lots: The ARC defines the following as wooded lots: 233, 348-355, 385, 386, 391, 397-419, 483-
487, 520-530, 533-536, 538-546, 554-558, 563-582, 586-591, 603-606, 609-614, 620-630, 634-636, 639, 
640, 644-660, 669-673, 675-711,712-727, 730 and 731.   
17.4.1. On lots that are not wooded, trees cut with prior ARC approval must be replaced in Accordance 
with Standard “A”.  On lots that are wooded, trees cut with prior ARC approval must be replaced 
in Accordance with Standard “B”.  Trees cut without prior ARC approval must be replaced in 
Accordance with Standard “C”.  If the ARC determines that a gross violation of this tree cutting 
policy has occurred, additional mitigation may be required. 
If Size of Tree Removed is <10”, then    If Size of Tree Removed is > 10” then 
Replacement 
standard 
Replace each 
tree removed 
with quantity 
 
Deciduous 
 
Coniferous 
Replace each 
tree removed 
with quantity 
 
Deciduous 
 
Coniferous 
A 1 1-1/2” Caliper 8 – 10’ 2 1-1/2” Caliper 8 – 10’ 
B 1 1-1/2” Caliper 8 – 10’ 2 1-1/2” Caliper 8 – 10’ 
C 2 2” Caliper 12 – 14’ 3 2” Caliper 12 – 14’ 
 
In addition, Standard “B” requires that replacement trees must be planted only if the following criteria are not 
met: 
 
 
 

17.4.1.1. At least two trees (greater than 6” in diameter at 4’6” height) will remain in the front 
yard after construction     
 
 and 
 
At least one tree (greater than 6” in diameter at 4’6” height) per thousand square feet of 
gross lot area will remain after construction. 
17.4.2. Compatibility:   Replacement trees should be chosen to be compatible with surrounding trees and 
 environment. 
17.4.3. Disclosure:   Tree replacement must be finished by the completion of installation of final 
landscaping.  The applicant has the responsibility to notify a subsequent purchaser of the 
property if tree replacement has not been completed.