General Architectural Guidelines 
Quality:  Development and maintenance of a high-quality community are the primary goals of Murrayhill.  To 
achieve a high-quality community image, both the overall building appearance and its details should convey a 
sense of solid, thoughtfully designed, permanent construction.  The Architectural Review Committee will not 
accept façade treatments that are associated with impermanent, hastily built or obviously inexpensive 
construction materials or techniques. 
Consistency:  The ARC seeks to achieve a high level of design consistency in the homes and other improvements in 
Murrayhill.  Buildings that may attempt a statement of quality on their street frontage, but abandon all pretense of 
design or quality on their sides and rear will not be approved.  A house of simple design, constructed of modest 
materials (if it carries that design and those materials consistently) will usually communicate a more convincing 
image of quality than a house with an elegant front but cheap, stripped-down design and construction on the 
other sides. 
Scale and Proportion of Dwellings: The finished streetscape must not create the impression of over-sized houses 
pushing too hard against the street. Vertical and horizontal offsets are encouraged in preference to houses with 
long, tall or unbroken walls and roofs abutting against the minimum setbacks. Because of the hillside nature of 
Murrayhill, it must be realized that choosing any plan from a book may be inappropriate for most lots.  
Additionally, variations in setbacks from the street edge are encouraged to provide interest along the streetscape.  
Buildings must relate primarily to the topography and should relate to existing trees and adjacent properties, 
rather than to the street. 
Scale:  The lots at Murrayhill are not normally sized for “estate” homes, and it is important that homes not be over 
scaled.  In this respect, entrances should not be over scaled in relation to the house itself.  Continuous ridgelines 
exceeding half the frontage width are discouraged; continuous ridgelines exceeding 75% of the frontage width are 
not permitted.  Changing the ridge directions or using offsets or major roof projections should be considered to 
break rooflines.  No dwelling may exceed the City of Beaverton lot coverage standards (42 percent). 
Roof Forms and Materials: All roof forms are allowed, depending upon the designer’s ability to produce a 
coherent, consistent, harmonious and unified appearance both overall and in detail.  The roof should convey an 
appearance of high-level quality, whether a simple or complex form, regardless of the materials used.  As with the 
design of the building as a whole, the style of the roof should remain consistent from all views.  
▪ Roofing material and color should be compatible with others in the same neighborhood or individual project, 
as well as with siding and trim colors 
▪ All roof installations require an approved application prior to installation. The ARC may approve other roof 
materials when appropriate for neighborhood continuity.   
▪ Composition Shingle roofs must have a minimum 5/8-inch profile The ARC has pre-approved the following 
composition materials: CertainTeed Presidential TL, colors, charcoal black, shadow grey, country grey, and 
autumn blend.  GAF Grand Canyon, colors, black oak, mission brown, stone wood, and storm cloud grey. 
Pabco Paramount Advantage, antique black, oak wood and weathered wood.  
▪ 3/4-inch wood shakes are required when replacing a shake with shake. 
▪ Include the manufacturer, material and color of the roof with your application. 
Openings and Projections: Large blank walls are to be avoided.  Blank walls visible from adjacent streets and open 
spaces should be broken up by means of well-placed windows, doors, bay windows, cantilevers or other 
architectural accents.  An architectural solution is stressed and preferred.  If an architectural solution is not 
possible because of interior design or need, blank walls are to be mitigated by well-placed, large-sized landscaping. 
Windows with a definitely visible trim surround are required, unless vinyl windows are proposed, in which case 
trim surround is optional.  The Wynwood and Murraywood neighborhoods are exceptions to the requirement for 
window trim.  In these two neighborhoods, window trim is required on the front of a house; it is encouraged on all 
other sides. Muntin bar patterns should be consistent on adjacent elevations that are visible from any street or 
common area. 
Material Changes: To avoid a tacked-on, low quality, thin veneer look, material changes should be made at an 
inside corner or at a major wall opening. Brick must terminate vertically at a horizontal surface and should return 
to an inside corner.  (See item 12, Exterior Colors and Brick, page 12).  

Design and Construction Guidelines 
The following guidelines and requirements apply to all construction (improvements) on all single family lots, new 
construction and remodels/additions, unless otherwise noted.  Additionally and without limitation, these guidelines also 
apply to multi-family and commercial improvements within Murrayhill.  With all construction, applications will be 
reviewed on their individual merit with regard to the intent of this document.  In any case, the Architectural Review 
Committee reserves the right to grant waivers and/or variances so long as the improvement is deemed to be within the 
intent of this document. 
1. Accessory  Buildings: Structures such as dog houses, tool sheds, etc., which are not appurtenant to the dwelling 
structure, but are intended for permanent or semi-permanent use, are subject to ARC approval. 
2. Antennae:   No exterior radio, television or telecommunication towers, antennae, satellite dishes, or other exterior 
transmission or receiving devices are allowed without the prior approval of the ARC. 
3. Building Height: A 35-foot high ridgeline (or as determined by City of Beaverton zoning ordinances) is the maximum 
allowable height for any structure.  The City of Beaverton, 2050 Development Code, solar access ordinance has 
precedence over ARC and zoning requirements. 
4. Chimney Caps: Chimney caps of purely utilitarian design are discouraged in Murrayhill.  Such caps, when necessary, 
must be screened by a false cap appropriate to the design of the building.  The design of this cap must be indicated 
in the final drawings.  In circumstances where a custom designed false cap is not permissible or desired, other 
types may be approved by the ARC upon application. 
5. Chimneys:   All chimneys must be designed to blend in aesthetically with the residence. 
6. Concrete Exposure: Exposed concrete of foundation, porches, stairs and landings must not exceed a height of 12”, 
if siding is parallel to finish grade and 24” if siding is stepped.  Any concrete exposure exceeding 12” must be 
screened by appropriate landscape materials.  The bottom edge of siding should be sloped to follow finish grade as 
much as possible and must be sloped to follow finish grade on front and other street elevations.  Brick must be 
stepped to follow finish grade or extended below finish grade. 
7. Decks:   When planning decks, consider the relationship and requirements of the rooms within the home, 
topography, adjacent homes and outdoor spaces, and the visibility of the understructure.  The deck should appear 
as a well-planned, compatible addition to the home and landscape.  If the deck is directly visible from adjacent 
streets and residence, particular attention must be given to an attractive design that integrates well with the 
home. 
7.1. Support Structure: If the distance from the underside of the deck joists or beams to finish grade exceeds 
24”, the ARC requires either wood, masonry or significant plant material to eliminate views of the 
underside of the deck and/or an organized, regularly spaced and visually well-planned structural system 
(sided, enhanced piers). 
7.2. Setbacks:   Decks should not crowd rear yard setbacks as approved by the City of Beaverton issued building 
permit. 
7.3. Screening Material Details: All openwork such as lattice or other semi-solid screening materials must be 
“stopped-in”, with detailing appropriate to the size of the panels or materials used, and painted or stained 
to match the deck and complement the house.  Face nailing or butt joints for lattice panels will not be 
approved. 
7.4. Finishing:   Decks may be finished using paint, solid-body stains, semi-solid body stains or wood-tone 
stains.  Paints and solid-body stains are to match or complement the primary or trim color of the house 
(depending upon the colors).  Wood-tone stains are to be compatible with the house primary and trim 
colors.  All finish materials are subject to ARC approval.  All exposed vertical surfaces of the deck, such as 
posts, rim joists; railings, stair framing, stair risers and screening must be finished within 12 months of 
completion of the deck.  Unfinished, weathered wood decks are not allowed. Creative accents are 
encouraged, but are subject to ARC approval.  Publicly visible, multistoried decks and/or decks with 
extensive stair-casing and visible understructure are to be painted or stained to match or compliment the 

body color of the house.  Creative resolution to finishing such multistoried and multi-staired, exposed 
understructure decks will be subject to ARC approval on a case-by-case basis. 
7.5. Disclosure:   Builders who choose not to paint or stain are responsible for notifying the purchaser of the 
current deck finishing requirements. 
8. Dog Runs: Installation of dog runs, including but not limited to location and fencing materials, will be reviewed and 
approved on a case-by-case basis, in order to limit their visibility from neighboring lots and public areas. 
Approvable fence materials may include:  
Chain link fencing, if it is located within a fenced yard area and does not extend above approved 
perimeter fencing. 
Type “F” fencing, if it is not installed along property lines. 
9. Drainage:   In addition to City of Beaverton criteria, all run-offs must be handled by adequately sloping all roof and 
outdoor areas to positively direct water away from buildings and to eliminate ponding.   The responsibility for 
proving that positive drainage is possible and for completing the construction in accordance with approved plans 
rests on the applicant for any construction or subsequent landscape activity. 
9.1. Roof Drains: Connect all roof drains to an approved storm drainage system. 
9.2. Uphill Drainage: Water that flowed from one property to another before the uphill home being built may 
continue to flow in the same direction after the home is built only if:  
 
There is no diversion or channeling that results in the water flow being concentrated in one area;  
and there is no substantial construction on the uphill lot resulting in increased rates of surface run-off. 
 
If a detrimental change occurs during construction or landscaping of the uphill home to the pattern of 
drainage on the uphill lot, the uphill property owner is responsible for interception and piping or directing 
surface water to natural drainage or the storm drainage system. 
9.3. Downhill Drainage: The downhill property owner is responsible for providing proper drainage for water 
flow that occurs in accordance with drainage patterns that existed before construction. 
10. Driveways, Sidewalks and Walkways: Driveway cuts onto the street shall  be limited to one per lot, unless 
otherwise approved by the ARC. All driveways must be exposed aggregate concrete, except in street right-of-ways, 
or as approved by the ARC. 
Sidewalks must be exposed aggregate concrete unless the concrete is enclosed by a fence and is more than 4’ from 
the front or street side of the home.  Walkways made of stone; brick, etc. can abut an exposed aggregate concrete 
driveway. 
11. Excavation:   All excavation must be done so as to create a minimum disturbance on the site and surrounding 
properties.  Owners should choose an appropriate house plan to fit the basic slope of the site and consider the use 
of retaining walls, terraces, split-level or platform housing to minimize re-grading.  All soil (not otherwise used on 
the lot under the same ownership) and debris as a result of excavation must be removed from Murrayhill.  Care 
must be taken to not create unacceptable slopes.  Excess excavation soil must not be added to existing grade 
within 10’ of the base of a tree.  No excavation may be done without prior written approval of the ARC. 
12. Exterior Colors and Brick: Exterior colors and material used on the building walls must be continuous and 
consistent on all elevations of a residence in order to achieve a uniform and complete architectural design and to 
avoid a “veneer” look.  Brick or other masonry materials should return to the inside corner; minimum “wrap” is 16” 
at brick panels 10’-0” or less in height and 24” at brick panels exceeding 10’-0”.  The top of all brick panels must be 
capped by framing and finished wall, floor or roof areas immediately above the brick.  Brick should terminate 
behind wall trim.  The face of the capping material must extend past the face of the brick by at least 1”.  
12.1. Color Harmony: Exterior colors of residences and other improvements must harmonize within themselves 
and be harmonious with their surroundings.  
 

13. Draperies and Window Coverings: All draperies and window coverings should be of materials and colors that 
harmonize with the surroundings, and should be chosen in consideration of neighboring views. 
In consideration of your neighbors, temporary window coverings (i.e., sheets, etc.) should be removed within 3 
months of occupancy of your home.  Newspaper may not be used as a temporary window covering. 
14. Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting must be designed and adequately shielded to cut off the spread of light and to 
eliminate glare onto adjacent properties, streets or sidewalks.  Completely shielded light sources are preferred. 
14.1. Flood Lights: Flood lights and spotlights mounted on the exterior face of the dwelling are permitted only 
upon specific approval by the ARC.  High intensity lamps and fixtures are prohibited.  All flood/spot lights 
must adhere to the following: 
14.1.1. Appearance:   Flood/spot lights must not detract from the appearance of the home. 
14.1.2. Enclosures:   Flood/spot lights must be designed with enclosures that completely hide the sockets 
and side of the lamps. 
14.1.3. Mountings:   Flood/spot lights must be mounted with the junction box within 7” of the bottom of 
the rafters or soffit when installed in the story immediately below the roof. 
14.1.4. Heads:   Flood/spot lights will be limited to two “heads” per location. 
14.1.5. Glare:  Flood/spot lights must be aimed so the filament glare is not visible from any adjacent 
properties, streets or sidewalks.  This may be impossible without an appropriate shield when 
lights are proposed on a home uphill from neighboring residences or streets. 
14.1.6. Mounting to Trees or Poles Prohibited: Flood lights and spot lights are not permitted to be mounted 
on poles or in trees. 
14.2. Post Lamps: Standard residential decorative post lamps are not prohibited outright, but must be approved 
by the ARC.   
14.3. Colored lights, non-permanent decorative lights or light sources shall be prohibited, except during the 
Christmas season.  Special consideration will be given to landscape lighting. 
15. Exterior Walls and Trim: Wood, wood products, local stone and brick are preferred for exterior walls and trims.  
Other materials will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. 
16. Fascias and Rafter Tails: Fascias should be constructed of nominal 2” thick material.  Rafter tails must be covered 
with a fascia board, with a depth of at least 1” greater than the attached gutter. 
17. Garages:   Seen from the street, the main living areas of the house must dominate the garage.  The visual 
impression should be that of a house with a gracious entry, not of a garage and a driveway.  Particular attention 
must be given to avoiding large, blank areas above garage doors. 
18. Gutters and Downspouts: All gutters and downspouts must be designed as a continuous architectural design 
feature.  Exposed gutters and downspouts must be colored to blend in with the surface to which they are attached. 
19. Heating and Cooling Systems: All interior or exterior heating or cooling systems must be screened from view from 
neighboring properties, streets and public open spaces and must be located and screened to minimize noise to 
adjacent properties. 
20. Mailboxes:   Mail distribution, in most cases, will be centralized mail delivery stations as required by the U.S. Postal 
Service.  Any mailboxes not installed by the U.S. Postal Service are subject to ARC approval. 
21. Mechanical Projections from Roof: Insofar as possible, plumbing vents, gas flues and other pipes should be 
grouped on that side of the roof which is opposite the street approach to the residence.  Gas or chimney flues or 
pipes protruding from the roof must not exceed 2’ in height; subject to compliance with applicable City of 
Beaverton building codes and must be painted to match the weathered roof color.  The location and design of 
these chases must be shown on the construction review application. 

22. Parking, Automobile: A minimum of two open-air parking places and two enclosed parking places are required for 
each single-family lot.  Enclosed parking must be in an approved garage, or an approved area adequately screened 
from any street and neighboring property views. 
23. Parking, Recreational Vehicles: RVs may be parked temporarily--for a period NOT to exceed 48 hours in any 7 day 
period--in driveways or on the street.  This includes parking of boats, trailers, recreational vehicles, trucks (except 
for pickups with no more than one (1) ton carrying capacity, passenger vans, and sport utility vehicles),  campers, 
non-street licensed motorized vehicles and, in addition, any equipment in excess of one quarter ton carrying 
capacity.  (City or Beaverton regulations permit street parking of RVs and certain other vehicles for a period NOT to 
exceed 48 hours.) 
24. Prefabricated Housing: Prefabricated housing is not allowed in Murrayhill. 
25. Privacy Screens: The preferred privacy screen is one that is treated as an architectural extension of the building, 
both in its design and in its materials, rather than as a separate and unrelated element. 
26. Recreational Equipment: Selection and placement of recreational equipment and play structures, including 
support, frame and mounting systems are subject to ARC approval prior to installation.  Application should provide 
information necessary to fully describe design, appearance, color and location of item (indicated on a site plan and 
drawn to scale).  Photographic and catalog representation of proposed equipment and structures can be part of 
the documentation.  Recreational equipment and structures are to be located and/or screened to minimize visual 
and noise impact to adjacent properties and the street. 
26.1. Basketball Backboards and Supports: Basketball backboards are to be located in front and side yards only if 
there is no suitable location in the rear yard.  Backboards must not be attached to the house; they must be 
freestanding.  Black or dark colored finishes are allowed.  Bright, fluorescent or multi-colored poles and 
supports are not allowed.  All portions of the basketball structure must be kept in good repair.  Portable 
basketball hoops should not be left on sidewalks or in roadways. 
26.2. Play Structures: Play structures are to be located in rear or substantial side yards and must be approved by 
the ARC on a case-by-case basis.  Play structures should be screened and have minimal impact on adjacent 
properties and views from the street. 
27. Roof and Attic Vents: Roof and attic vents must be shown on the building elevations.  The type, size and proposed 
design must be clearly shown.  To the greatest extent possible, vents must be located so as not to be seen from 
streets. 
28. Screen and Storm Doors: Installation of screen and storm doors is subject to application review and approval by 
the ARC.  Applications must be accompanied by the appropriate application and must include documentation as 
necessary to fully describe the design, appearance, color and location.  Such doors must be of durable, quality 
construction, compatible with the design of the home and must either be finished to match the primary door or 
the color of the trim adjacent to the door.  Doors with grilles, bars or other ornamentation are discouraged.   
29. Service Areas/Service Structures: When not provided by other structures (fence or landscaping), each residence 
must have a screened service yard, enclosing garbage and yard debris containers, firewood, bicycles and other 
similar items, which must be placed where items stored will not be visible from the street or neighboring 
properties.  Garbage and yard debris containers shall be returned to the storage area by the end of the day of trash 
pickup.  Garbage and yard debris containers shall not be removed from the service storage area for street side 
placement prior to the day before collection.  Service, clotheslines, swimming pools, etc., if desired, are subject to 
review by the ARC and permitted on a case-by-case basis only. 
 
30. Siding Material: Siding materials typically approvable for use within Murrayhill include lap siding (both cedar and 
man made products, such as L-P or Hardi Plank), synthetic stucco (such as “Dryvit”), vertical cedar siding, brick, and 
synthetic and natural stone.  For new construction, submitted drawings must indicate exact materials and their 
locations. 
 

30.1. Re-siding:  In order to keep current the construction file for each home in Murrayhill, if you are replacing 
the siding materials on your home, you will need to make an application to the Architectural Review 
Committee.  The Architectural Review Committee has developed a streamlined application for this 
purpose, and there is no fee for this review.   
31. Signs:   This section addresses various types of signs within Murrayhill.  Anything not addressed in this section will 
be dealt with on a case-by-case basis at the discretion of the Architectural Review Committee. 
31.1. Completed Homes:   Upon completion of a residence, signs may be posted as follows: 
31.1.1. Address:   A sign mounted to the exterior of the building identifying the occupant and the  
       address of the unit must be no larger the 12”x 12”. 
31.1.2. For Sale/Rent: In the event the owner wishes to advertise such owner’s residence for resale or 
 rent, the sign used for this purpose must be approved in advance by the Architectural Review  
       Committee.  Only one (1) “For Sale” or “For Rent” sign is allowed.  Properties with more than 
 one street exposure are allowed one additional sign. 
31.1.3. Temporary Signs:   “Open House” and “Model Home” signs are not to be permanently displayed 
        and must be removed when the home is not being shown.  Streamers, flags and other like  
        advertising or attention-attracting devices are expressly prohibited. 
31.1.4. Garage Sale Signs: One sign may be posted at site of sale.  Additional signs are limited to one 
       at each main entrance to Murrayhill and corner directional signs only.  Signs must not be larger 
       than 18”x 24”.  Out of consideration for our neighborhoods, Garage Sale and other like signs  
       should be put up the day of the event and removed by Sunday evening. 
31.1.4.1. Mounting on Trees Prohibited: Under no condition may signs be mounted or nailed to a 
         tree. 
31.1.4.2. Directional Signs: Sandwich boards or A-Frame signs indicating open houses are  
         permitted only during the times the homes are actually open and must be completely 
         removed at other times, not just knocked down or hidden in the landscaping. 
31.1.4.3. Attention Devices Prohibited:   Any device designed to draw attention to any signage, 
         such as but not limited to, balloons or streamers is expressly prohibited. 
31.2    During Construction:   During single-family home construction, signs may be posted as follows: 
31.1.5. Sign Size Limits: Signs generally must conform to a maximum size of 18”x 24”. 
31.1.6. Mounting and Number of Signs Permitted: Signs must be mounted only on the sign tree 
       installed by the developer and must be limited to two signs in addition to the standard lot  
       identification number. 
31.1.7. Contractor Signs: Contractors, such as painters, landscapers, window cleaners, etc. working on 
homes may wish to install their signs as a means of advertising their work.  These signs may be installed 
without prior application subject to the following conditions: 
• Only one sign may be installed per lot at any time. 
• Signs must not be larger than 18”x 24”. 
• Contractor signs must be removed within 3 days of completion of their work. 
Landscape contractor signs may not be installed as a permanent part of your landscaping. 
31.2. Multi-Family Sites: All signs posted on multi-family sites must conform to City of Beaverton sign regulations 
and have prior written approval of the ARC. 
31.3. Sign Removal: Signs not meeting Murrayhill guidelines will be removed and discarded from the premises 
where displayed without notice.  The party or parties identified on the signs are liable for all cost incurred 
to remove any signage not in conformance with these guidelines. 

32. Solar Installations: All proposed installations of solar collectors of any type require the submission of a “Solar 
Collector         Application” to the Architectural Review Committee (ARC) of the Murrayhill Owners Association.  
Solar collectors include a myriad of solar panels, solar tiles, and any of the other devices that are intended to 
convert sunlight to heat or energy.  All such applications will be reviewed on a “case-by-case basis”, due to the 
numerous variables which include, but are not limited to aesthetics, solar efficiency, functionality, visibility, lot 
location and other neighborhood variables. 
 
32.1 Definitions of Rooftop Solar Collector Devices 
  32.1.1 Rooftop solar collector devices are defined as: 
32.1.2 Photovoltaic (PV) panels/modules 
32.1.3 Solar Water Heating (SWH) panels/modules   
32.1.4 Integrated Photovoltaic Systems (IPS), i.e., photovoltaic shingles, tiles or siding or thin-film 
laminates. 
 
32.2    Aesthetic Guidelines 
Color preference for the device surface is black, and if constructed with trim, the trim must be anodized or 
otherwise color treated to match the home’s exterior paint scheme, or black to match solar device surface.  
Solar “shingles” that mimic the look of a composite shingle are acceptable but should match the color of the 
current roof shingles as much as practical. All painted surfaces will be kept in good repair. 
The maximum solar device clearance (distance from the roof surface to the top surface of the solar device) 
should be four (4) inches. 
 
     32.2.1   Street facing roof solar devices shall be: 
▪ flush mounted (i.e. match the existing plane of the roof, parallel to roof line). This also applies to 
side roofs that face a street; or 
▪ architecturally designed to match the entire roof plane the system is intended to cover.  (i.e. the 
solar system must extend to the ridge, valley and gutter lines in all directions 
     32.2.2    Installation: 
▪ Solar Devices must be installed on the plane of roof material and may not extend above the ridge 
line of the roof.  
▪ The ARC prefers that the location of solar collectors not be installed directly above the front 
entryway of the homeowner’s front door or on the most visible roofline of the house from the 
homeowner’s primary street access.    
▪ All conduit or pipe runs should be internal/concealed (non-visible from the outside) or, if 
external, be painted to match background color. 
▪ Any exterior PV system inverter or other utility box should be placed either inside or within three 
feet of the existing utility meter, preferably on the same plane as the existing utility meter.  
Invertors and additional utility meters must be screened from view from the street.  
       32.2.3    Maintenance: It is understood by the homeowner that the solar devices will be kept clean and     
        maintained for aesthetic and performance reasons. 
 
33. Tree Preservation: The form and placement of the building, driveway, decks, patios and other man-made features 
must be designed to preserve trees.  Removal of any tree over 6” in caliper or diameter at 4’6” in height is subject 
to approval by the ARC.  The City of Beaverton has additional requirements, different criteria and a separate review 
process for approval of removing trees.  Trees must be protected from damage during construction.   (See item 17, 
Tree Preservation and Removal, Pages 25 & 26, for additional information). 
33.1. Distance from Equipment: Trees must have no construction equipment allowed within 10’ of the base of 
the tree.  A greater distance may be required under special circumstances; 
33.2. Soil Deposit: Trees must have no additional soil deposited on top of the root system. 
33.3. Root Protection:   Trees may need to have roots preserved by partially excavating by hand and sawing off 
roots at excavated areas; 

33.4. Pre-construction Grade: Pre-construction grade must be maintained through construction to the time of 
finished landscape.  
34. Utilities:   All connections from trunk lines to individual structures must be underground.  Exposed plumbing and 
electrical lines are not allowed.  Materials must conform to the City of Beaverton requirements and standards.  
Water and sewer hook-ups must be inspected by the appropriate governmental inspectors.  All excavation for site 
utility hook-ups must be restored to its previous condition.  Utility meters should be screened or diffused from 
street view at time of final landscaping.  Utility meters should never be located on the front of a home. 
35. Utility Screening: In general, all utility meter panels and service feeds must be screened so that they are not visible 
from the street.  Utility meter panels and service feeds must never be located in the front of a home. 
36. Windows:  Consistency in type, style, trim and proportion of window areas is a key focus of the ARC.  Consistent 
with the goal of achieving quality in Murrayhill, the ARC will discourage applications showing differing styles and 
type scattered over the various elevations of the building.  Type of operation and patterns of muntin bars (window 
“grids”) should be compatible with the style of the home and consistent within each elevation and within each 
view of the home from the street. 
 
Exterior bars on windows are subject to ARC application and approval.  They must not be installed on any window 
or door facing a street or right-of-way.