Design Review Fees
 
Construction Preliminary Review – $35.00 
Final Construction Review - $1,500.00 
Remodel - Minimum$300.00 or $1.00 per square ft. 
Exterior Color - $35.00 
Siding Brick Stone - $35.00 
Roofing - $35.00 
Gazebo, Shed, etc. - $60.00 
Spa - $60.00 
Fence/Screening - $35.00 
Play Structure - $35.00 
Deck/Patio/Flatwork - $60.00 
Retaining Walls - $60.00 
Solar Preliminary Review - $35.00 
Solar Final Review - $60.00 
Recreation Equipment – $60.00 
Landscape Renovations $60.00 
Landscape Lighting - $60.00 
Tree Removal - $60.00 
Windows & Doors - $35.00 
 
 
 
Architectural Review Process
In order to protect, enhance, and maintain the high standards and community quality, approval must be 
obtained in advance from the ARC before starting any exterior construction for landscaping, paving, 
cutting of trees, grading, or construction of any kind, including remodeling or additions.  The ARC will 
review the plans, specifications, samples or any other submittal for landscaping, paving, cutting of trees, 
grading or construction of any kind, including remodeling or additions, and will consider among other 
things, conformity with the requirements of the Design Guidelines and the CC&R’s. 
The ARC will review each application giving special consideration to the following issues: 
 How the proposed home or construction relates to the lot, including the relationships among 
height, grading, drainage, views and existing trees. 
 How the proposed home or improvement relates to adjacent approved homes, including mass, 
height, and spaces between homes. 
 How the proposed home relates to the specific criteria in this Design Handbook, including but 
not limited to windows, style, consistency, proportion, detailing, texture, and use of materials 
and colors. 
 How the proposed landscape enhances the appearance of the individual home and neighborhood. 
 How well the proposed landscape provides a transition between the home, the surrounding 
natural environment, and adjacent properties. 
The Murrayhill ARC generally approves applications outright or approves them with conditions.  
Approval of any application requires assent or concurrence of three voting members.  If three voting 
members do not approve an application, it will be sent back for additional detail, information, 
clarification, or redesign. 

Preliminary Construction Review -  
New Construction or Construction Alterations 
This is a meeting of the ARC after preliminary or schematic design has been done, or a specific home 
has been selected to be built on a specific lot.  This meeting is also appropriate at the same stage of 
planning for an addition or when remodeling the exterior of any home or structure.  
Purposes: 
 Begin the dialogue between the lot owner and the ARC. 
 Review what the home will look like from all sides, how compatible the design is with trees and 
slope, and how compatible the design will be with adjacent properties. 
 Review the applicant's site plan, giving particular attention to how the home will blend with 
existing and proposed grading, and outdoor living concept, including proposed patios, decks, 
gardens, areas of lawn, shrub areas, and location of play and garden equipment. 
 Review how trees are to be preserved. 
 Offer suggestions, where appropriate, which might improve the execution of the Homeowner’s 
design concept. 
 Determine if the design complies with the goals of the Design Guidelines and, accordingly, to 
approve, approve with conditions, or send back an application. 
Final Construction Review 
This is a meeting of the ARC after final, complete construction documents have been prepared for any 
home, addition, or exterior remodeling.  
Purposes: 
 Continue the dialogue between the lot owner and the ARC. 
 Encourage design solutions that respond creatively to the conditions at hand. 
 Review fully what the home will look like from all sides, how compatible the design is with trees 
and slope, and how compatible the design will be with adjacent properties. 
 Review the form and detail of the home, looking for and encouraging attractive, appropriate 
design elements. 
 Review the applicant's site plan, giving particular attention to how the home will blend with 
existing and proposed grading. 
 Review how trees are to be preserved. 
 Review the relationship of outdoor living areas, including patios, decks, gardens, areas of lawn, 
shrub areas, and location of play and garden equipment. 
 Offer suggestions, where appropriate, which could improve the harmony of home design and 
lot. 
 Determine if the design complies fully with the goals and standards of the Design Guidelines 
and, accordingly, to approve, approve with conditions, or send back an application. 

Detail Review 
This is a meeting of the ARC to review construction details before installation or changing of 
any exterior finish materials.  The ARC encourages these decisions to be made as early in the 
building process as possible, but recognizes that a prospective purchaser may desire additional input when purchasing a home already under construction. 
Purposes: 
 Continue the dialogue between the lot owner and the ARC. 
 Offer additional design input, if appropriate, so that average design solutions become good 
ones, and good ones, excellent. 
 Review final selections of exterior construction materials, including exterior light fixtures, 
exterior colors, final brick selections, and any other unresolved minor items. 
 Review progress toward compliance with specific conditions of approval. 
Landscape Design Review 
This is a review of the proposed landscape design by the ARC after final, complete landscape 
construction drawings have been prepared.  
Purposes: 
 Review fully how the landscape design will enhance the design of the home and achieve 
harmony with the surrounding natural environment. 
 Review how compatible the design is with trees, slope, and with adjacent lots or properties. 
 Review the applicant's site plan, giving particular attention to how the home will blend with 
existing and proposed grading. 
 Review the relationships among constructed landscape elements, exterior spaces, and the 
natural environment, including outdoor living areas such as patios, decks, gardens; areas of lawn 
and planting areas; landscape walls and terraces; and location of play and garden equipment. 
Solar Installation Review 
Preliminary Submission Requirements          
 A conceptual drawing of the proposed location and number of solar devices on the roof  
 A site map, showing the orientation of the home in relation to other properties. This site map 
can be created from web-based applications such as Google maps 
 Proposed solar device manufacturer brochure or cut sheet 
 Current roof material and color 
 
Final Submission Requirements                     
 A completed application must include a color visualization and/or simulated image of the 
installation. The solar system must be accompanied by a professional construction drawing(s) to 
scale for the proposed installation and location on roof. The exact location and number of 
collectors, means of attachment to the roof structure and location of all exterior components 
must be shown.  
 

Specifications for the installation must include 
 Verification of a minimum 10-year roof life beyond date of application. 
 Documentation that the system meets the required technical guidelines of this policy. 
 Current roof material and color. 
 Proposed solar device manufacturer and color, including stock photos of the device from the 
manufacturer.  The ARC will review color, material make-up, dimensions, and other features. 
General Considerations 
 Solar rooftop devices must fit within the dimensions of the roof and should be visually integrated 
with the architecture of the house regarding locations.  
 Devices must be owned by the homeowner; leased products from third parties are not allowed. 
 Reverse angle or tracking platforms or mechanisms that allow devices to tilt seasonally, permanently 
or by time of day are not allowed.  
 Prior to the installation of any devices, the roof surface shall be verified to have a minimum roof life 
of 10 years remaining from date of installation.  
 Roof life will be determined by proof of roof installation date, professional roofer certification or 
professional home inspector certification, in each case in form and substance acceptable to the ARC. 
Technical Guidelines           
 Installations must comply with applicable building codes; all necessary permits must be obtained. 
Installations should also comply with both Energy Trust of Oregon and Oregon Department of 
Energy guidelines and compliance codes.  
  SWH systems should have non-mechanical overheat and freeze protection mechanisms.  
  All PV installations should have a minimum manufacturer’s power performance warranty of 20 
years. All SWH installations should have a minimum manufacturer’s power performance warranty 
of 10 years.  
  Within the overlay of the below listed Aesthetic Guidelines, the ARC will strive if possible to 
accommodate solar access angles of between 90 degrees East up to 270 degrees West, and as close 
to 180 degrees South as possible within the provisions below.   
Aesthetic Guidelines 
 Solar panels must have a non-reflective surface. Dow Solar Shingles or other similar products may be 
approved 
 The maximum panel clearance (distance from the roof surface to the top surface of the panel) should 
be 4 inches or less, as the approved solar materials and other new projects are just above or flush 
with the roofs surface. 
Solar Considerations New Construction 
  Designers should consider passive solar opportunities.  Design and siting of a house should take into 
account the solar space of neighboring houses, such as minimizing structure height near the north 
property line when a building site lies to the north. 
 Solar collectors and associated hardware must be an integral part of the design of the building and 
must not have a “tacked-on” appearance.  Placement of the collectors should consider the impact of 
glare on neighboring outdoor spaces. 
With all applications: 
To assume timely processing of your application, please deliver your completed application and items for 
review to the Murrayhill Owners Association office at 11010 SW Teal Boulevard (at the Murrayhill 
Recreation Center). 
If you wish to meet with the ARC, please call the Murrayhill Owners Association office at 503-524-4429 or 
email to admin@murrayhillowners.com to schedule a specific meeting time. 

What to Include with a Construction Application 
Construction Review Application:    
Construction Review Applications, including new construction and/or remodels/additions, must be 
made using the appropriate “Architectural Review Committee Application” form (which is to be 
completed in full).  Inaccurate, partial or incomplete applications will not be reviewed by the ARC.  The 
submittal must include two copies of the following: 
Application Form 
Site Plan: Applicant must submit a complete site plan at a minimum scale of 1/8” equals 1’-0” with the 
same information as that required for the Preliminary Construction Review Application.  A detailed 
grading plan must be submitted with contours at 2’ intervals.  Contours must extend off-site far enough 
to show compatibility with adjacent properties. 
Building Elevations: All exterior elevations must be shown at a minimum scale of 1/8” equals 1’-0”, 
including the relationship of the building’s finished floor elevation to the proposed finished grade of the 
lot on each elevation, including all decks and patios.  Requirements of the Preliminary Review 
Application process also apply. 
Floor Plans: Floor plans for the proposed improvement must be submitted at a minimum scale of 1/8” 
equals 1’-0”. 
Roof Plans: A roof plan at a minimum scale of 1/8” equals 1’-0” must be submitted.  This may be 
illustrated on the site plan. 
Three-Dimensional Representation: In the case of complex roof forms or unusual structures, the ARC 
may require isometric or perspective views or models in order to fully understand the visual impact or 
the three-dimensional feasibility of the proposed improvement.  The applicant will be notified of this 
requirement during the Preliminary Approval process. 
Exterior Lighting: Catalog cuts, including size and finish of fixtures (or legible prints of catalog cuts) of all 
exterior lighting fixtures to be used must be submitted on the standard ARC form. 
Exterior Colors Including Masonry: Samples of all exterior colors must be submitted on the standard 
ARC form. 
Construction Review Application Fee: A check made payable to the MOA (in an amount set by the 
MOA) must be attached to the first Final Review Application, unless otherwise previously agreed.  
If construction review in excess of two applications is necessary, each additional construction review 
must be submitted with a check made payable to the MOA (in an amount set by the MOA). 
Construction Approval and Expiration: The applicant will be notified in writing of the action of the ARC 
within 30 days of the submission of all information requested.  If final approval has been granted, 
approval will automatically be deemed revoked 180 days after issuance, unless construction of the 
improvement has commenced or the applicant has applied for and received an extension of time from 
the ARC. 
 
 

Specific to remodels/additions: Applications for remodels/additions of existing homes ONLY 
require documentation relevant to what is being changed.  A typical remodel/addition application 
would include the following: 
 A site plan drawn to the previous specifications. 
 A revised building elevation for the sides of the home that is being affected by the 
remodel/addition, drawn to the previous specifications. 
 A revised floor plan drawn to the previous specifications. 
 A revised roof plan, if the roof of the home is being affected by the remodel/addition, 
drawn to the previous specifications. 
 New exterior colors and/or masonry, if colors are being changed or masonry is being 
changed or added as part of the remodel/addition. 
All Murrayhill design and construction standards apply to remodels/additions.  Please refer to the 
General Architectural Guidelines as well as the Design and Construction Guidelines when you begin 
to plan a remodel or addition to your home. 
Rehearing:   If the ARC rejects an application, additional review by the ARC will not be made unless 
substantial changes in the application have been made.   The applicant can meet directly with 
the ARC during any stage of the ARC review process in order to clarify or resolve disagreement.  If 
resolution cannot be reached during the final review process, the applicant has the right to request 
review by the MOA Board of Directors.  It is up to the discretion of the MOA Board of Directors to 
decide if review will be granted an applicant.  If the Board does grant review, the ARC Chairperson 
will be in attendance to clarify ARC action. 
Construction Observation: Submittal of the application gives authority to the ARC to make on-site 
observation of the lot and any construction in progress to determine reasonable compliance with 
the approved submittal. 
Construction Field Changes: Although it is the intent of the ARC that all improvements be 
constructed exactly per approved plans, the ARC realizes that occasionally a revision must be made 
“in the field” in response to certain existing conditions that may have been unforeseen at the time 
of approval.  Any alteration to or deviation from approved plans must be submitted to the ARC for 
approval before commencement of construction of the element to be altered.  Any builder/owner 
who proceeds with field changes before ARC approval acknowledges and assumes the risk that 
the ARC can require changes to be altered or removed.  The ARC is under no obligation to 
approve unauthorized field changes. 
Construction Field Supervision: The ARC recognizes that the remaining un-built lots in Murrayhill 
include those that are the most difficult and challenging.  Therefore, it is mandatory that builders 
exercise vigilant supervision in the field to avoid construction error, especially in grading and 
elevations.  Construction that has not been done according to approved plans, nor with vigilant 
care, can result in un-resolvable error.  Construction error will be subject to strict compliance 
procedures.