Landscaping Standards 
1. Accents:   Decorative accents, such as large stones, river rock, etc., may be used sparingly for landscape highlight.  
Accent materials are not to be used as permanent ground cover in large areas. 
2. Adjacent Properties: The scenic views of adjacent properties must not be blocked.  Consideration to adjacent 
properties must be given both in plant selection and placement.  Avoid invasive plants at property lines and consider 
height and space limitations in regard to mature plant size.  Plant selections should be compatible with adjacent 
material. 
3. Design Elements: When laying out the landscape design, think about what achieves good proportion relevant to the 
home, plus pleasing line, spacing, color and texture.  Consider area function and access when planning.  The core of 
landscape design can be met with an interesting mix of deciduous and evergreen plants to provide year-round 
greenery and color.  Massing, varying heights and creative accents lend individuality to your landscape.  Avoid the 
individual scattering of plants.  When designing the landscape layout, give consideration to exterior (shade, 
screening, etc.) and interior (light blockage, views, solar efficiency, etc.) effects of plan design. 
4. Foundation Coverage: Exposed foundation must be screened.  A predominate mix of evergreen shrubs is best to 
provide year-round foliage, soften corners and dress up the base of the house.  Choose species that will not grow 
too large for the area or damage the foundation. 
5. Grading: Any re-grading proposed at time of landscaping must be clearly and accurately indicated on your landscape 
plan.  (Please refer to Item 9, Drainage, page 12, for more information about re-grading). 
6. Ground Cover: Large, bare, unplanted areas are not permitted in the landscape design.  Mulches are not to be used 
as permanent ground cover, but natural, native bark mulch products are recommended in planting bed areas to 
hold moisture and add organic matter to the soil.  Ground cover should be selected and placed to provide the 
appropriate coverage and density for the specie at maturity; that is, they should provide complete coverage of the 
area intended within three to five years.  Large areas of gravel, colored rock, painted concrete and Astroturf are not 
acceptable as permanent ground covers. 
7. Hedges:   All hedge installation is subject to ARC approval on a case-by-case basis, which will include height, width, 
location, encroachment, setbacks, views and plant selection concerns.  Hedges are not to be used as fencing. 
Extensive property line hedging is not allowed.  Side yard hedges are discouraged.  Hedges may be used in private, 
rear areas of the yard to screen or diffuse recreational areas, garden areas, storage areas, service areas, etc., from 
public or street view.  Hedges are to be maintained in a manner appropriate to the specie.  Selecting plant varieties 
that can be allowed to grow to a natural, graceful shape, without the need for severe pruning is preferred.   
8. Landscape Maintenance: All landscaping in Murrayhill is to be maintained in a neat and healthy appearance at all 
times. 
9. Lawn Areas: Lawns may be seeded or sodded.  Turf is permitted next to and abutting structures.  Turf must not be 
used in private open space and is discouraged adjacent to private open space and public open space. (See Item 12, 
Private Space, Private Open Space, and Public Open Space, page 24). 
10. Parking Strip: The homeowner is responsible for installing and maintaining the lawn area between the curb and the 
sidewalk and/or lot.  Turf is required in the parking strip, but a stepping stone of rock, brick, etc., may be installed in 
the turf to allow access from curb to sidewalk.  (Refer to Item 15, Street Trees, and page 25, concerning tree 
requirements).  
11. Plant Species: Certain plants and trees are indigenous to the Murrayhill area and have been found to grow well in 
this location.  Recommended plant lists and assistance in choosing plants are available from the ARC upon request.  
Publications such as the Sunset Western Garden Book are a valuable resource when choosing plants material 
 
11.1. Plant material includes trees, shrubs, ground covers, vines, perennials, annuals and bulbs.  A mixture of 
species will add interest to your landscaping.  When making plant selection, be sure to research growth 
patterns, mature size and environmental needs of the specie selected (sun, shade, soil, drainage, etc.), 
then locate plants accordingly.  Avoid placement that could result in damage to adjacent foundation, 

sidewalks and driveways.  Plant size chosen at installation should reflect growth rate of the plant material 
and should be placed on the plan in a manner to encourage a finished look within three to five years.  The 
use of native plant material is encouraged in areas adjacent to private open space and public open space.  
If you are unsure which plants do well in this area, Murrayhill has developed a suggested (but not limited 
to) plant list that may aid in the selection of plant material. 
 
12. Private Space, Private Open Space and Public Open Space: Murrayhill is divided into private areas, private open 
space (resource areas) and public open space (common areas).  All landscape applicants are to abide by the 
Murrayhill Guidelines and the City of Beaverton easements and restrictions pertaining to both Private Open Space 
and Public Open Space areas.  Check to see if your property is adjacent to public open space or part of private open 
space where specified Guidelines, as well as City of Beaverton restrictions apply.  Also, be sure to read your title 
insurance document, which specifies easements and restrictions pertaining to your specific lot. 
 
In order to avoid damage to terrain in private open spaces and public open spaces, homeowners should provide 
designers, contractors and workers with easement and restriction information before commencement of landscape 
design and installation. 
12.1. Private Space: Boundaries of owner’s lot, exclusive of Private Open Space. 
12.2. Private Open Space (Resource Areas): Area that falls under private ownership, but is subject to 
development restrictions by the ARC and the City of Beaverton.  These easements have been created to 
preserve wildlife habitat, drainage-ways, and to maintain the natural landscape.  
 
Any proposed alteration to these areas must be approved by both the City of Beaverton and the 
Architectural Review Committee.  Plans received by the Architectural Review Committee without prior 
City of Beaverton approval will not be reviewed.  Additional information regarding these areas is 
available from the City of Beaverton Planning Department as well as from the Murrayhill Owners 
Association office. 
 
The restrictions on these easements are as follows: 
12.2.1. Removal of Plant Material: No tree, shrub or any other plant material may be removed without 
prior approval of the ARC and the City of Beaverton. 
12.2.2. New Plant Material: New plant material should be indigenous to the area and should be chosen 
for its wildlife habitat value.  No lawns are allowed within the designated private open space 
easements. 
12.2.3. Re-grading Prohibited: No roadways or re-grading will be permitted within the private open space 
easements. 
12.2.4. Structures Prohibited: No structure of any sort, including fencing, will be permitted within the 
private open space easement, nor are they allowed along easement lines, unless such structure is 
deemed required to protect the surrounding property, property owner, or community at large 
from a verified natural hazard or imminent danger.   
12.2.5. Landscape Transition: Owners adjacent to private open space areas should provide a transition 
from landscaped areas to open spaces.   Species at these junctures should be indigenous to the 
area.  Layout of plant material should be in loose, informal masses. 
12.3. Public Open Space: Area owned by the MOA for public use (such as sidewalks, Common Areas, etc.). 
12.3.1. Adjacent Lawn: Turf is discouraged in areas adjacent to public open space. 

 
12.3.2. Adjacent Plant Material: The use of native or compatible plant material is encouraged in areas 
adjacent to public open space. 
12.3.3. Informal Plant Arrangement: Informal massing of plant material adjacent to public open space is 
encouraged. 
 
13. Retaining Walls 
13.1. Wall Height: Retaining walls for landscape purposes should not exceed four (4) feet in height.  Walls in 
excess of four feet in height shall be designed and the drawings stamped by a certified engineer.  Particular 
notice shall be given as to footings, type of material and drainage allowance.  The approval of the drawings 
by the ARC will necessitate construction only as approved.  Two lower walls may complement a welldesigned landscape arrangement much better than one taller wall.  The potential for more usable 
landscaping area using a set of shorter walls should be explored and is encouraged. 
 
13.2. Wall Material: Retaining walls shall be constructed of material that complements and is compatible with 
adjacent material and textures of those used in the home.  Facing and capping of retaining walls is 
encouraged to present a pleasing vista.  Blank retaining walls are discouraged.  If it is not possible to 
construct a wall without large blank areas the area(s) must be mitigated by adequate plantings, or other 
means, as approved by the ARC. 
14. Screening:   Locations in the yard such as storage areas, service areas, noisy or play equipment areas, etc., are to be 
screened or diffused from street view and, if possible, from adjacent property view. 
15. Street Trees: Street trees are planted by the developer in the strip between the curb and the sidewalk or lot in 
accordance with the requirements of the City as part of the Planned Development process.  Owners are responsible 
for maintenance of street trees adjacent to their property. 
16. Trees:   The Murrayhill community places a high value on trees.  Groves of trees should be preserved whenever 
practical.  Siting, building, landscaping and maintenance of homes and yards must give high priority to retaining as 
many trees as possible. 
 
Lots and neighborhoods that were wooded after installation of utilities and roads should retain a wooded character 
after home construction.  Replanting is required to reinforce and replace trees removed during construction and 
subsequent occupancy so that the wooded character will recover within a 10-year period.  Owners must plan, plant 
and maintain yards in order to preserve and protect the health of existing trees.  
 
Consideration of the eventual height of trees shall be exercised for protection of existing views and solar access.  
17. Tree Preservation and Removal: The form and placement of the building, driveway, decks, patios and other manmade features must be designed to preserve trees.  Removal of any tree over 6” in caliper or diameter at 4’6” in 
height is subject to approval by the ARC.  The City of Beaverton has additional requirements, different criteria and a 
separate review process for approval of removing trees. To remove trees, approval must be granted by both the City 
of Beaverton and the ARC.  The City of Beaverton does not necessarily require permission for all tree removal. Street 
trees and protected trees only will require City permission for removal. 
17.1. Tree Removal Approval:   Generally, the ARC will approve removal of trees only in the following instances: 
17.1.1. Distance from Structures: Tree is within 15’ of the foundation, 7’ of walks and drives or 3’ of a 
deck, provided a reasonable attempt has been made to site the home to preserve existing trees, 
particularly stands or groves of significant trees. 
17.1.2. Condition Report: An arborist or the MOA Landscape Consultant has confirmed, in writing, that a 
tree is damaged or diseased or is dead. 
 

17.1.3. Single trees: A single tree may present a hazard to the adjacent property and must be judged 
separately from the above criteria.  Special attention must be given to canopy size, potential for 
windthrow, former status within the stand and possible future deleterious effects from re-grading 
adjacent to this tree. 
17.2. Protection of Trees to be Preserved: Trees identified by the ARC to be saved as a condition of approval 
require the following protection: 
17.2.1. Trees designated to be preserved shall be fenced with five foot high fencing a minimum of 15’ 
from the trunk of the tree. (If the tree is less than 6” in diameter at 4’6” height the fencing may 
be accomplished at the drip line of the canopy.)  This fencing shall be installed before any grading 
or construction activities on the lot.  
17.2.2. The area inside the fencing shall not be used for storage of construction materials. The fencing 
shall not be breached at any time during construction.  If the fence is breached or penetrated, the 
ARC shall be notified immediately.  All work in this area shall cease until an ARC representative 
has inspected the area and authorized fence repairs and any required mitigation before 
resumption of work in the affected area. 
17.2.3. No soil may be removed from inside the fenced area and no spoils may be placed in the fenced 
area without specific authorization from the ARC administrator or his designate. Construction 
litter will not be allowed to accumulate inside the fenced area. 
17.3. Care of trees other than those required to be saved by the ARC is the responsibility of the applicant during 
any construction or landscape activity. 
17.4. Tree Replacement: Removed trees are to be replaced in accordance with the following standards.  The 
Architectural Review Committee reserves the right to alter or grant waivers to these replacement 
standards on a case-by-case basis. 
 
Wooded Lots: The ARC defines the following as wooded lots: 233, 348-355, 385, 386, 391, 397-419, 483-
487, 520-530, 533-536, 538-546, 554-558, 563-582, 586-591, 603-606, 609-614, 620-630, 634-636, 639, 
640, 644-660, 669-673, 675-711,712-727, 730 and 731.   
17.4.1. On lots that are not wooded, trees cut with prior ARC approval must be replaced in Accordance 
with Standard “A”.  On lots that are wooded, trees cut with prior ARC approval must be replaced 
in Accordance with Standard “B”.  Trees cut without prior ARC approval must be replaced in 
Accordance with Standard “C”.  If the ARC determines that a gross violation of this tree cutting 
policy has occurred, additional mitigation may be required. 
If Size of Tree Removed is <10”, then    If Size of Tree Removed is > 10” then 
Replacement 
standard 
Replace each 
tree removed 
with quantity 
 
Deciduous 
 
Coniferous 
Replace each 
tree removed 
with quantity 
 
Deciduous 
 
Coniferous 
A 1 1-1/2” Caliper 8 – 10’ 2 1-1/2” Caliper 8 – 10’ 
B 1 1-1/2” Caliper 8 – 10’ 2 1-1/2” Caliper 8 – 10’ 
C 2 2” Caliper 12 – 14’ 3 2” Caliper 12 – 14’ 
 
In addition, Standard “B” requires that replacement trees must be planted only if the following criteria are not 
met: 
 
 
 

17.4.1.1. At least two trees (greater than 6” in diameter at 4’6” height) will remain in the front 
yard after construction     
 
 and 
 
At least one tree (greater than 6” in diameter at 4’6” height) per thousand square feet of 
gross lot area will remain after construction. 
17.4.2. Compatibility:   Replacement trees should be chosen to be compatible with surrounding trees and 
 environment. 
17.4.3. Disclosure:   Tree replacement must be finished by the completion of installation of final 
landscaping.  The applicant has the responsibility to notify a subsequent purchaser of the 
property if tree replacement has not been completed.